Do you like mysteries or puzzles?
What about secrets?
Are you good at keeping
honorable secrets confidential?
Jehovah had a secret
that he kept for about 4,000 years!
Unlike human secrets,
which often are difficult to keep confidential,
Jehovah’s sacred secret
would be revealed only by divine revelation.
In other words, Jehovah would reveal
the details only in his due time.
Proverbs 25:2 says:
“It is the glory of God to keep a matter secret.”
What’s the secret we’re talking about?
It’s related to the first prophecy
recorded in the Bible,
found at Genesis 3:15.
How would Jehovah fix the damage caused
by the rebellion in the garden of Eden?
Jehovah said to the serpent who deceived Eve:
“And I will put enmity
between you and the woman
“and between your offspring and her offspring.
He will crush your head,
and you will strike him in the heel.”
What an intriguing prophecy!
It was spoken some 6,000 years ago,
but its meaning affects each one of us
and every person who has ever lived.
Who was behind the voice of the serpent?
Who was “the woman”?
Eve might have thought that she was,
because when she later gave birth to Cain,
she said at Genesis 4:1:
“I have produced a male child
with the help of Jehovah.”
But Eve was not “the woman” of the prophecy.
Jehovah’s secret was still a secret.
Who was the ‘offspring of the woman’?
If Eve thought it was Cain,
she was sadly disappointed.
Jehovah would reveal these details
according to his timetable,
long after Adam and Eve died.
We might compare the revealing
of Jehovah’s sacred secret to this puzzle box.
It’s locked and seems impossible to open.
However, a series of steps
leads to opening the box
and revealing the treasure inside.
Those steps are like the details
that led to identifying
the promised ‘offspring of the woman.’
What were some of those details?
Over 2,000 years after the prophecy in Eden,
Jehovah made a promise
to the faithful man Abraham
that provided a piece of the puzzle.
What did Jehovah say?
We find his words at Genesis 22:17, 18:
“I will surely bless you
“and I will surely multiply your offspring
like the stars of the heavens
“and like the grains of sand on the seashore,
“and your offspring will take possession
of the gate of his enemies.
“And by means of your offspring
all nations of the earth
will obtain a blessing for themselves.”
Wow!
Jehovah revealed the first detail
to unlock his sacred secret.
Abraham must have been amazed
when he looked up to the heavens
and saw thousands of stars.
Although Abraham would not see
the complete fulfillment of the promise
in his lifetime,
it certainly would be fulfilled at a future time
by the God who does not lie.
Jehovah repeated the promise
to Abraham’s son Isaac
and to Isaac’s son Jacob.
Jacob, in his deathbed prophecy,
said at Genesis 49:10
that “the scepter [would] not
depart from Judah.”
So we learn that kingship is involved
and that the promised offspring
would come through Judah’s line.
Later, Jehovah provided the Mosaic Law
to help protect the nation of Israel
and the promised offspring.
What was the next significant detail
to be revealed?
In 1070 B.C.E.,
Judah’s descendant David
became king over all Israel.
David was “a man agreeable
to [Jehovah’s] heart,”
and Jehovah promised to raise up
someone in David’s royal line
who would rule forever.
The promise is recorded
at 2 Samuel chapter 7,
verses 12 and 13:
“I will raise up your offspring after you,
“your own son,
and I will firmly establish his kingdom. . . .
I will firmly establish the throne
of his kingdom forever.”
We’re one step closer to identifying
the promised offspring.
The offspring
would come through David’s line.
Although David’s son Solomon
had a peaceful reign,
he was not the King who would rule forever.
That King would appear in the future
at Jehovah’s appointed time.
Of course, the Devil didn’t want
the promised offspring of the woman to appear,
so he repeatedly tried to eliminate
or contaminate the lineage to the offspring.
However, Jehovah made sure
that the Devil failed in his attempts.
Down through the centuries,
Jehovah, through his prophets,
provided specific details
regarding the promised offspring.
For instance, the prophet Micah foretold
that the Messiah would be born in Bethlehem.
Daniel’s prophecy of the 70 weeks of years
indicated the exact year
when the Messiah would appear.
Also, Isaiah’s prophecy revealed
that the offspring would die a sacrificial death.
Jehovah was progressively revealing details
about his sacred secret.
Centuries later, in the year 2 B.C.E.,
the angel Gabriel appeared
to a Jewish virgin named Mary
and made a startling declaration to her.
Would you like to know what it is?
It’s found at Luke 1:31-33:
“Look! you will become pregnant
and give birth to a son,
“and you are to name him Jesus.
“This one will be great
“and will be called Son of the Most High,
“and Jehovah God will give him
the throne of David his father,
“and he will rule as King
over the house of Jacob forever,
and there will be no end to his Kingdom.”
Both Mary and Jesus’ adoptive father, Joseph,
were descendants of David,
so Jesus received both the natural
and the legal rights of an heir of David.
Can you imagine what might have been
going through Mary’s mind
after hearing those words?
Did she perhaps remember
hearing similar details
from the book of Moses
about the promised offspring?
Of course, about nine months later,
when Jesus was born,
Jehovah’s angel appeared to shepherds
who were tending their flocks near Bethlehem.
The angel announced,
as recorded in Luke chapter 2:
“Today there was born to you
in David’s city a savior,
who is Christ the Lord.”
After thousands of years,
Jehovah was giving notice
that his sacred secret would soon be revealed.
The shepherds went and told Mary
and Joseph about this divine message.
The word about the Christ was spreading.
About 30 years later,
in the days of John the Baptizer,
“the people were in expectation
“and all of them were reasoning
in their hearts about John,
‘May he perhaps be the Christ?’”
A short time later, Jesus the Nazarene
came to John to be baptized.
After Jesus came up out of the water,
Jehovah anointed him with holy spirit and said:
“This is my Son, the beloved.”
At long last,
the promised offspring
of Genesis 3:15 had arrived!
Humble Jews readily responded
to Jesus’ teachings and ministry.
But there were many more details
about the sacred secret yet to be revealed,
like the many facets
of a beautiful crystal.
During his ministry,
Jesus himself identified the serpent
as Satan and the serpent’s offspring
as those who display
the Devil’s characteristics.
Jesus also revealed,
as recorded at Luke 22:28-30,
that there would be a secondary part
of the woman’s offspring:
spirit-anointed Christians
who will rule with Christ in heaven.
Later, the apostle Paul identified
the woman of the prophecy
as the heavenly part of Jehovah’s organization,
made up of faithful spirit creatures.
Of course, the enmity foretold at Genesis 3:15
continues into our day.
The Devil and his offspring
continue “to wage war
with the remaining ones
of [the woman’s] offspring” on earth.
But what did the Messiah accomplish
while he was on the earth?
The Jews were hoping that he would bring
liberation from Roman oppression.
However, Daniel’s prophecy indicated
that the Messiah would be “cut off,”
or “put to death.”
This corresponded to the ‘striking in the heel,’
mentioned at Genesis 3:15.
Still, Jehovah also revealed at Psalm 16:10
that his Son would not be left “in the Grave.”
True to his promise,
Jehovah resurrected Jesus
less than three days after his death.
Of course, a principal part
of Jehovah’s sacred secret
involved the Messianic Kingdom,
of which Christ would be King.
While Jesus was on earth,
he cured the sick,
he fed the hungry,
and he resurrected the dead
—things that he’ll do on a far greater scale
as King of God’s Kingdom.
After Jesus ascended to heaven,
many additional details
about God’s sacred secret
were revealed in the writings we now know
as the Christian Greek Scriptures.
Colossians 2:3 says:
“Carefully concealed in him [or, Christ]
are all the treasures of wisdom
and of knowledge.”
When did the sacred secret come to its finish?
Revelation 10:7 says that it would occur
“in the days when the seventh angel
is about to blow his trumpet.”
When did that take place?
Let’s note the answer at Revelation 11:15:
“The seventh angel blew his trumpet.
“And there were loud voices in heaven, saying:
“‘The kingdom of the world
“‘has become the Kingdom of our Lord
and of his Christ,
and he will rule as king forever and ever.’”
This occurred in 1914
when Christ Jesus became
King of God’s Kingdom.
But is that the end?
No!
The revelation provides additional details
regarding God’s Kingdom
and future events
that most people would consider shocking.
For example, Revelation 19:11-16
reveals that Christ Jesus,
“the King of kings and Lord of lords,”
will “strike the nations”
and “shepherd them with a rod of iron.”
As King of God’s Kingdom,
Jesus will soon crush all human governments
and hurl the Devil into an abyss of inactivity.
This will lead to 1,000 years of peace.
At the end of the thousand years,
the Devil will be released from the abyss
for a short time,
and then the final fulfillment
of Genesis 3:15 will occur:
The offspring of the woman
will crush the head of the Devil.
How does all of this affect us?
We’re privileged to know
about God’s sacred secret,
which he kept secret for some 4,000 years.
Some of the details Jehovah
has helped his people
to understand only in recent decades!
Yes, Jehovah has made “known to us
the sacred secret of his will.”
During this broadcast,
we have considered only a few facets
of God’s sacred secret.
Why not make it a project
for personal or family worship?
It’s thrilling to think about Kingdom realities
and how Jehovah will completely undo
the effects of Satan’s rebellion.
Christ Jesus now rules as King in the heavens,
and the days for this evil system of things
under Satan’s domination are numbered.
Jesus will soon strike the nations
with a rod of iron
and then transform the earth
into a beautiful paradise.
What does Jehovah want us to do
with his sacred secret?
Should we put it back into the box?
bury it in the ground?
No!
Jehovah wants us to make it known!
The sacred secret is now being proclaimed
in over 1,000 languages.
Are you having a full share?
Deep appreciation for this sacred secret
and all that it means for the future will impel us
to share it with as many people as possible.
When the apostle Paul wrote
to Christians in Ephesus,
he requested of them,
as recorded at Ephesians 6:19:
“Pray also for me,
“that the words may be given to me
when I open my mouth,
“so that I may be able to speak boldly
in making known the sacred secret
of the good news.”
That’s our prayer for you,
dear brothers and sisters,
that we all may continue to declare
Jehovah’s sacred secret with boldness.